>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY DECEMBER 27:
THOUSANDS ATTEND THE FUNERAL OF
ONE OF TWO NEW YORK CITY
POLICEMEN MURDERED WHILE ON DUTY
LAST WEEKEND.
THE VICE PRESIDENT PAYS TRIBUTE
TO THE OFFICER AND THE N.Y.P.D.
>> POLICE OFFICERS AND POLICE
FAMILIES ARE A DIFFERENT BREED.
THANK GOD FOR THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: NORTH KOREA
RIDICULES PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
ACCUSES THE UNITED STATES OF
CAUSING INTERNET SHORTAGES IN
THAT COUNTRY.
WE'LL HEAR HOW THE
ADMINISTRATION IS TRYING TO
PROTECT AGAINST FUTURE CYBER
ATTACKS.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, A
FAMILY OF SHARECROPPERS FLEE
POVERTY AND RACISM.
AN UNLIKELY SUCCESS STORY
REVEALED DURING A CHANCE
ENCOUNTER ON AN AIRPLANE.
>> MY GRANDPARENTS, MY DAD, MY
COUSINS, MY UNCLES, ALL WALKED
ON THIS LAND.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
IT'S BEEN A WEEK NOW SINCE TWO
NEW YORK CITY POLICE OFFICERS
WERE MURDERED BY A MAN WHO
APPARENTLY WAS SEEKING REVENGE
FOR THE KILLINGS OF MICHAEL
BROWN AND ERIC GARNER BY WHITE
POLICE OFFICERS, DEATHS FOR
WHICH THE POLICE WERE NOT
CHARGED.
AND TODAY, THERE WAS A FUNERAL
FOR ONE OF THE OFFICERS SHOT
DEAD IN HIS PATROL CAR LAST
SATURDAY IN BROOKLYN.
THE NEWSHOUR'S HANNAH YI HAS OUR
REPORT.
>> Reporter: THOUSANDS FLOODED
THE STREETS NEAR A QUEENS CHURCH
THIS MORNING FOR THE FUNERAL OF
OFFICER RAFAEL RAMOS, A 40-YEAR-
OLD FATHER OF TWO TEENAGED BOYS
WHO HAD BEEN STUDYING TO BECOME
A CHAPLAIN.
HE AND ANOTHER PATROLMAN,
WENJIAN LIU, WERE SHOT DEAD
WITHOUT WARNING AS THEY SAT IN
THEIR POLICE CAR.
A WALL OF BLUE UNIFORMED
OFFICERS STOOD IN SOLIDARITY,
QUIETLY PAYING THEIR RESPECTS
ALONGSIDE OTHER NEW YORKERS.
INSIDE THE PACKED CHURCH, VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN EULOGIZED RAMOS
AND THE OTHER MURDERED
POLICEMAN.
BIDEN SAID THE SACRIFICES POLICE
OFFICERS AND THEIR FAMILIES MAKE
ARE RARELY FULLY APPRECIATED.
>> IT'S ONLY WHEN A TRAGEDY LIKE
THIS OCCURS THAT ALL THEIR
FRIENDS, NEIGHBORS AND PEOPLE
WHO DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THEM BECOME
AWARE OF AND REMINDED OF THE
SACRIFICES THEY MAKE EVERY
SINGLE, SOLITARY DAY TO MAKE OUR
LIVES BETTER.
>> Reporter: NEW YORK CITY MAYOR
BILL DE BLASIO ALSO PAID TRIBUTE
TO RAMOS.
>> HE WAS A PEACEMAKER IN EVERY
SENSE.
THROUGHOUT HIS LIFE, HE WAS A
MAN OF PEACE, A MAN OF LOVE.
AND HE WAS A PEACEMAKER FOR THE
CITY OF NEW YORK.
POLICE OFFICERS ARE CALLED PEACE
OFFICERS BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
THEY DO-- THEY KEEP THE PEACE.
THEY HELP MAKE A PLACE THAT
OTHERWISE WOULD BE TORN WITH
STRIFE, A PLACE OF PEACE.
OFFICER RAMOS PUT HIS LIFE ON
THE LINE EVERY DAY SO OTHER NEW
YORKERS COULD LIVE IN PEACE, SO
THEY COULD LIVE IN SAFETY.
>> Reporter: EARLIER THIS WEEK,
OFFICERS RAMOS AND LIU WERE
POSTHUMOUSLY PROMOTED TO
DETECTIVE, AN ACT THAT WILL
INCREASE THE BENEFITS THEIR
FAMILIES WILL RECEIVE.
AND AT TODAY'S FUNERAL SERVICE,
NEW YORK CITY POLICE
COMMISSIONER WILLIAM BRATTON
HAD THIS ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> I'M PRIVILEGED TO BE ABLE TO
TELL YOU THAT TODAY, I AM
APPOINTING HIM AN HONORARY
DEPARTMENT CHAPLAIN OF THE
84th PRECINCT.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Reporter: THE MURDER OF THE
TWO POLICE OFFICERS LED TO
ACCUSATIONS BY FORMER NEW YORK
CITY MAYOR RUDOLPH GUILIANI THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND MAYOR DE
BLASIO HAD CONTRIBUTED TO AN
ANTI-POLICE ENVIRONMENT.
GUILIANI SAID NATIONWIDE
PROTESTS OVER THE KILLINGS OF
BROWN AND GARNER HAD SPREAD THE
MESSAGE THAT "EVERYBODY SHOULD
HATE THE POLICE."
AND THE HEAD OF A NEW YORK CITY
POLICE UNION SAID DE BLASIO HAD
BLOOD ON HIS HANDS.
LAST WEEKEND, WHEN DE BLASIO
VISITED THE HOSPITAL WHERE THE
OFFICERS WERE TAKEN, THE POLICE,
IN A SYMBOLIC ACT, TURNED THEIR
BACKS ON HIM.
AND A NUMBER OF THEM DID TODAY,
AS WELL, WHEN THE MAYOR SPOKE.
AFTER TODAY'S SERVICE, THE LATE
OFFICER'S WIFE WAS HANDED AN
AMERICAN FLAG, AND RAMOS' FLAG-
DRAPED COFFIN WAS CARRIED FROM
THE CHURCH.
>> Sreenivasan: OVERSEAS TODAY,
IN IRAQ AND SYRIA, THE U.S.-LED
COALITION CARRIED OUT 12 AIR
STRIKES AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE.
THE COMBINED JOINT TASK FORCE
SAID SIX OF THE ATTACKS OCCURRED
NEAR THE SYRIAN TOWN OF KOBANI,
NEAR THE TURKISH BORDER.
ISIS POSITIONS NEAR MOSUL AND
FALLUJAH WERE AMONG THE
TARGETS HIT IN IRAQ.
THE COALITION CARRIED OUT
ANOTHER 39 AIR STRIKES YESTERDAY
AND THE DAY BEFORE.
FROM SYRIA TODAY, A POSSIBLE
PEACE OVERTURE FROM PRESIDENT
ASSAD'S REGIME.
STATE TELEVISION QUOTED A
FOREIGN MINISTRY OFFICIAL AS
SAYING THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
WOULD BE WILLING TO PARTICIPATE
IN PRELIMINARY CONSULTATIONS IN
MOSCOW, POSSIBLY STARTING LATE
NEXT MONTH.
PEACE TALKS IN GENEVA LAST
FEBRUARY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT
AND REBEL GROUPS COLLAPSED.
AN ESTIMATED 200,000 SYRIANS
HAVE BEEN KILLED AND MILLIONS
MORE UPROOTED SINCE AN UPRISING
AGAINST ASSAD'S REGIME BEGAN
SEVERAL YEARS AGO.
A LEADING SYRIAN OPPOSITION
LEADER DOWNPLAYED TODAY'S
DEVELOPMENT, SAYING THERE IS NO
CLEAR INITIATIVE TO END THE
HOSTILITIES.
IRAN IS CONDUCTING MILITARY
DRILLS NEAR THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ, WHERE ABOUT 20% OF THE
WORLD'S OIL PASSES, AND TODAY IT
UNVEILED A NEW KIND OF DRONE
THAT A TOP COMMANDER DESCRIBED
AS A MOBILE BOMB.
STATE MEDIA IN THAT COUNTRY SAID
THE WEAPON IS DESIGNED TO STRIKE
AIR, GROUND AND NAVAL TARGETS.
IRAN SAYS ANOTHER OF ITS DRONES
CAN CARRY UP TO EIGHT BOMBS OR
MISSILES AND HAS A RANGE OF
1,050 MILES.
THAT WOULD MEAN IT COULD HIT
TARGETS THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE
EAST, INCLUDING ISRAEL.
FROM SOMALIA, REPORTS THAT A TOP
LEADER OF THE MUSLIM EXTREMIST
GROUP AL-SHABAAB HAS SURRENDERED
TO AUTHORITIES.
ZAKARIYA ISMAIL AHMED HERSI HAD
A $3 MILLION BOUNTY ON HIS HEAD.
ONE INTELLIGENCE OFFICER QUOTED
BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS SAID
HERSI MAY HAVE GIVEN HIMSELF UP
BECAUSE OF A FALLING OUT WITH
FOLLOWERS OF AL-SHABAAB'S TOP
LEADER, WHO WAS KILLED IN A U.S.
AIR STRIKE EARLIER THIS YEAR.
IN EGYPT TODAY, AN APPEALS COURT
UPHELD THE CONVICTIONS OF EIGHT
MEN WHO APPEARED IN A VIDEO
SHOWING A SAME-SEX WEDDING, BUT
THE JUDGE CUT THEIR SENTENCES
FROM THREE YEARS TO ONE YEAR.
WHILE EGYPTIAN LAW DOES NOT
SPECIFICALLY OUTLAW
HOMOSEXUALITY, THE EIGHT MEN
WERE TRIED FOR "INCITING
DEBAUCHERY," A CHARGE IN EGYPT
THAT IS NORMALLY RESERVED FOR
PROSTITUTION.
GAY RIGHTS ACTIVISTS SAY THAT AT
LEAST 150 MEN IN EGYPT HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED IN CONNECTION TO
ALLEGED HOMOSEXUAL BEHAVIOR IN
THE PAST 18 MONTHS.
IN ANOTHER SIGN OF A CLASH OF
CULTURES BETWEEN EGYPT AND THE
WEST, 20th CENTURY FOX SAYS
EGYPT HAS BANNED ITS FILM
"EXODUS: GODS AND KINGS."
EGYPT'S CULTURE MINISTER SAID
THE FILM "GIVES A ZIONIST VIEW
OF HISTORY AND CONTAINS
HISTORICAL INACCURACIES."
THE FILM, WHICH OPENED TWO WEEKS
AGO, HAS GROSSED $109 MILLION
WORLDWIDE, ABOUT $30 MILLION
LESS THAN IT REPORTEDLY COST TO
PRODUCE.
IN CALIFORNIA, A COURT VICTORY
FOR IMMIGRANT RIGHTS ACTIVISTS.
AN APPEALS COURT HAS UPHELD A
POLICY WHICH MAKES IT LESS
LIKELY THAT POLICE WILL IMPOUND
THE CARS OF UNLICENSED DRIVERS
WHO ARE STOPPED FOR TRAFFIC
INFRACTIONS.
THE LOS ANGELES POLICE
DEPARTMENT HAILED THE DECISION,
SAYING IT HELPS MAINTAIN
COMMUNITY TRUST.
THE POLICY, WHICH WENT INTO
EFFECT IN 2012, HAD BEEN
CHALLENGED BY THE POLICE UNION.
A NEW SURVEY SHOWS THAT A HIGHER
PERCENTAGE OF COLORADANS ARE
REGULARLY USING MARIJUANA NOW
THAT RECREATIONAL USE IS LEGAL
THERE.
THE STUDY BY THE NATIONAL SURVEY
ON DRUG USE AND HEALTH SAYS
ABOUT ONE IN EIGHT PEOPLE THERE
OVER THE AGE OF 12 REPORT USING
MARIJUANA IN THE PAST MONTH.
THAT'S UP 22% FROM THE LAST TIME
THE SURVEY WAS TAKEN.
ONLY RHODE ISLAND HAS A HIGHER
RATE OF REGULAR MARIJUANA USE,
ACCORDING TO THE FEDERAL DATA.
AND A SURVEY OF MORE THAN 1,000
PEOPLE CONDUCTED BY THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS SHOWS THAT
AMERICANS RATE THE RISE OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE IN SYRIA AND IRAQ
AS THE MOST IMPORTANT NEWS STORY
OF THE YEAR.
ALMOST AS IMPORTANT TO SURVEY
RESPONDENTS WAS THE RACIAL
UNREST IN THE AFTERMATH OF THE
KILLINGS OF MICHAEL BROWN AND
ERIC GARNER, AND THE EBOLA
OUTBREAK.
>> Sreenivasan: NORTH KOREA
TODAY BLAMED PRESIDENT OBAMA FOR
SONY'S DECISION TO RELEASE THE
CONTROVERSIAL FILM "THE
INTERVIEW" WHICH TELLS THE STORY
OF A FICTIONAL PLOT TO KILL
NORTH KOREAN LEADER KIM JONG-
UN.
THE RECENT HACKING OF SONY,
WHICH WAS WIDELY BLAMED ON NORTH
KOREA, HAS CAUSED THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TO CONSIDER NEW
STEPS TO PROTECT AGAINST CYBER
ATTACKS.
CAROL LEE OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" IS IN HAWAII, WHERE THE
PRESIDENT IS VACATIONING, AND
JOINS US NOW FROM HONOLULU.
SO, SONY WAS THE FIRST KIND OF
BIG, RED FLAG.
WHAT DOES THE WHITE HOUSE THINK
IS THE CONSEQUENCE OF THAT FOR
OTHER COMPANIES AROUND THE U.S.?
DO THEY THINK THAT THIS IS THE
THE CYBER THREATS COULD
INCREASE?
>> THEY DO.
AND THEIR MAIN CONCERN IS THAT
WHAT HAPPENED WITH THIS SONY
ATTACK IS, AS ONE ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIAL PUT IT, THAT IT MARKS A
CROSSING OF A THRESHOLD INTO
THIS KIND OF NEW WAVE OF
CYBERATTACKS THAT'RE ESSENTIALLY
CYBER EXTORTION, WHERE A NATION
STATE OR ANOTHER ORGANIZATION OR
GROUP HACKS INTO A COMPANY-- OR
PERHAPS THE GOVERNMENT-- AND
USES THAT AS LEVERAGE TO TRY TO
GET THE COMPANY OR THE
GOVERNMENT TO MEET CERTAIN
DEMANDS.
IN THE INSTANCE WITH SONY, IT
WAS THAT THEY PULL THIS MOVIE
"THE INTERVIEW," AND INITIALLY,
WHAT WAS CONCERNING TO THE WHITE
HOUSE WAS THAT SONY AGREED TO DO
THAT, WHICH BASICALLY, YOU KNOW,
REWARDED THIS ACTION AND, YOU
KNOW, DESPITE THE REVERSAL ON
THAT, THE WHITE HOUSE FEELS LIKE
THIS STILL MARKS A CROSSING OF
THE THRESHOLD AND, YOU KNOW, THE
POSSIBILITY OF SEEING ADDITIONAL
ATTACKS LIKE THIS IS REAL
BECAUSE IT ESSENTIALLY WORKED.
SO THE WHITE HOUSE IS EXPLORING
SOME NEW WAYS TO TRY TO GET THE
GOVERNMENT AND THE PRIVATE
SECTOR ON THE SAME PAGE IN THIS
AND TO TRY TO COMBAT THIS SO
THAT THESE SORTS OF THINGS ARE
MINIMIZED IN THE FUTURE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT ARE
SOME OF THE INITIATIVES THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE IS TAKING?
>> WELL, THIS WHOLE THING IS
NEW.
THIS IS A NEW AREA IN CYBER
SECURITY.
AND THE GOVERNMENT AND THE
PRIVATE SECTOR ARE NOT
NECESSARILY ENTIRELY IN SYNC IN
SOME OF THESE THINGS, AND THAT
WAS-- THAT WAS EXPOSED IN THE
VERY PUBLIC DISAGREEMENT BETWEEN
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND SONY
EXECUTIVES OVER WHETHER OR NOT
TO RELEASE THE FILM.
SO, FIRST, YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY
THE PRESIDENT SAID THAT HE
WISHED SONY HAD TALKED TO THEM.
SO I THINK YOU'LL PROBABLY SEE
SOME ADDITIONAL COMMUNICATION AT
VERY HIGH LEVELS AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
AND CYBER-SECURITY LEGISLATION,
THE PRESIDENT CALLED ON CONGRESS
AGAIN TO PASS SOMETHING
STRICTER.
THE HOPE OF THE ADMINISTRATION
IS THAT COMPANIES NOW HAVE AN
INCENTIVE TO TRY TO GET SOME
SORT OF REGULATIONS OR
STANDARDS IN PLACE BECAUSE
WHAT'S HAPPENED UNTIL NOW IS
THAT THEY'VE RESISTED THAT.
THERE'S DIFFERENT-- THE CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE AND OTHER GROUP--
BUSINESS LOBBYING GROUPS HAVE
SAID SETTING CERTAIN MINIMAL
STANDARDS FOR GROUPS LIKE
BANKING OR ENERGY WOULD BE
BURDENSOME AND COULD LEAD TO
LITIGATION IF SOMEHOW THEY HAD
THOSE STANDARDS AND AN ATTACKER
WAS ABLE TO STILL PENETRATE.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME COMPANIES
HAVE ALSO BEEN BUSH BUSHING BACK
BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT TO GIVE
THE GOVERNMENT TOO MUCH ACCESS
TO THEIR CONTENT OR THEIR USERS'
INFORMATION, RIGHT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
IT'S A REALLY STRANGE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
GOVERNMENT AND THE PRIVATE
SECTOR BECAUSE TYPICALLY YOU
HAVE A GOVERNMENT THAT ACTS AS A
REGULATOR AND COMPANIES THAT ARE
REGULATED.
AND IN THIS INSTANCE, IT'S NOT
LIKE THAT.
AND WHEN YOU THROW IN THESE
ADDED NATIONAL SECURITY
CONCERNS, IT CREATES AN ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT RELATIONSHIP, AND A
NEW DYNAMIC THAT SORT OF BOTH
SIDES ARE TRYING TO FEEL THEIR
WAY THROUGH.
AND IT'S VERY UNCERTAIN RIGHT
NOW, AND THE WHOLE PROCESS IS
SORT OF PIECEMEAL.
BUT THE HOPE IS, AT LEAST FROM
THE ADMINISTRATION'S SIDE, IS
THAT THIS WILL LEAD TO SOME SORT
OF WAY IN WHICH THAT THEY CAN
GET CLOSER TOGETHER AND MORE ON
BOARD AS THEY TRY TO NAVIGATE
THIS STRANGE RELATIONSHIP WHERE
BUSINESSES NEED THE GOVERNMENT
TO BE INVOLVED IN THINGS LIKE
THIS BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT IS
THE ONE WHO CAN COME IN AND
ACTUALLY FIGURE OUT WHO DID IT
AND DO CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
AND PROSECUTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
CAROL LEE OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" JOINING US FROM
HONOLULU.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
ACCORDING TO A.A.A, A RECORD 99
MILLION AMERICANS ARE ON THE
MOVE THIS HOLIDAY SEASON, TRAVEL
THAT COMES WITH THE USUAL
FRUSTRATIONS INCLUDING TRAFFIC
JAMS AND FLIGHT DELAYS AND
CANCELLATIONS.
TONIGHT, NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JOHN LARSON OFFERS
US A DIFFERENT TAKE ON AIR
TRAVEL.
HIS SERIES, "FLYING COACH,"
DETAILS THE STORIES OF PEOPLE HE
ENCOUNTERS WHILE TRAVELING TO
REPORT OTHER STORIES.
TONIGHT'S STORY ACTUALLY BEGAN
WITH AN UPGRADE.
♪ SAILING THROUGH THE AIR
OH, I'M GOING TO TAKE THE TRIP
IN THE GOOD OLD GOSPEL SHIP. ♪
>> Reporter: WE BEGIN ON THE
ROAD, ON A RURAL HIGHWAY WITH
THE STORY OF A JOURNEY.
♪ OH, I'M GONNA SHOUT AND SING.
AND BEFORE ITS OVER, I HOPE
YOU SEE WHY WE TRAVELED
HUNDREDS OF MILES ACROSS
ARKANSAS, LOUISIANA AND TEXAS
TO TELL YOU ABOUT A WOMAN WHO
SAT NEXT TO ME ON AN AIRPLANE.
♪ SAILING THROUGH THE AIR.
WHEN YOU'VE FLOWN MORE THAN TWO
MILLION MILES IN COACH, YOU
SOMETIMES GET A CHANCE TO SIT IN
FIRST CLASS.
YOU WAIT FOR YOUR NAME TO WORK
ITS WAY UP A LIST, AND WHEN IT
HAPPENS...
>> PASSENGER LARSON...
>> Reporter: ... IT FEELS LIKE
YOU WON THE LOTTERY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
BYE-BYE.
>> Reporter: SO, I WAS FEELING
GOOD WHEN I BOARDED AMERICAN
AIRLINES FLIGHT 1015,
DALLAS TO SAN DIEGO.
I WAS IN SEAT 5B.
NEXT TO ME IN 5A WAS DONNA HANN.
SHE WORE EXPENSIVE JEWELRY-- A
WOMAN OF PRIVILEGE, I THOUGHT.
BUT AS WE FLEW ACROSS TEXAS, I
LEARNED I COULDN'T HAVE BEEN
MORE WRONG.
♪ WHEN I DIE, HALLELUJAH...
>> MY GRANDPARENTS LIVED IN A
LITTLE HOME THAT HAD A TIN ROOF
ON IT.
THEY WERE SHARECROPPING.
>> Reporter: DONNA'S FAMILY, HER
PARENTS AND GRANDPARENTS, WERE
LIKE OTHER POOR SHARECROPPERS
FROM ARKANSAS, PICKING COTTON ON
OTHER PEOPLE'S LAND.
THEY WERE THE KIND OF POOR THAT
CAN TAKE GENERATIONS TO
OVERCOME.
>> HEY, STRANGER.
>> Reporter: SO WHEN SHE INVITED
ME TO HER FAMILY'S REUNION, I
ACCEPTED.
>> I BET YOU DIDN'T THINK I'D
SHOW UP HERE.
>> I THINK YOU'RE A BRAVE SOUL.
>> Reporter: THE REUNION WAS
LIKE OTHER'S I'D BEEN TO...
>> THIS IS BROTHER AND SISTER
RIGHT HERE.
>> Reporter: ...AT LEAST UNTIL
DONNA AND HER SISTER...
>> THERE SHE IS.
>> Reporter: ...BEGAN TO SING.
>> ♪ JUST A CLOSER WALK WITH
THEE. ♪
>> Reporter: IT TURNS OUT THEIR
PARENTS WERE RUN OFF THEIR
COTTON FIELDS.
>> ♪ GRANTED JESUS IS MY PLEA.
>> THERE WAS JUST SOME UNREST
IN THAT AREA, CIVIL UNREST.
♪
>> Reporter: UNREST?
TO LEARN MORE, WE JOINED DONNA
AND HER SISTER, BONNIE, ON A
TRIP BACK TO ARKANSAS.
>> WOW, LOOK HOW BIG THAT CHURCH
IS!
>> MERCY SAKES.
>> WHEN YOU COME BACK SOME PLACE
AS AN ADULT, THE PERSPECTIVE IS
SO DIFFERENT.
>> ♪ WHAT A DAY THAT WILL BE.
>> Reporter: THEY HADN'T BEEN
BACK SINCE THEY WERE LITTLE
GIRLS, AND THE FAMILY HAD NO
ADDRESSES.
THEY KNEW ONLY THAT THEIR
PARENTS HAD SHARECROPPED WITH
A BLACK FAMILY, AND THE TWO
FAMILIES HAD BEEN FRIENDS,
WORKING AND LIVING SIDE BY SIDE
IN TWO SMALL HOUSES OUTSIDE THE
LITTLE TOWN OF DUMAS, ARKANSAS,
WHICH IS WHERE WE FOUND TWO
ABANDONED HOUSES AT THE EDGE OF
A COTTON FIELD.
SO, COULD THIS BE IT?
>> COULD BE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS THE
EXACT COTTON FIELD OR THE PLACE
WHERE MY PARENTS LIVED.
>> Reporter: WHAT THEY DID KNOW
WAS WHAT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT IN
1957.
>> WE HAD ALL GONE TO BED, AND
ALL OF A SUDDEN THERE WAS JUST
SO MUCH NOISE AND EVERYTHING
OUTSIDE.
IT MUST HAVE BEEN MAYBE 15 MEN
AND THEY WERE ON HORSES, AND
THEY HAD THE WHITE SHEETS ON
AND THEY WERE RIDING AROUND AND
AROUND OUR HOUSE.
AND THEY WERE CARRYING LIGHTED
TORCHES.
>> Reporter: THE KU KLUX KLAN
WAS STILL A POWERFUL LOCAL FORCE
HERE IN THE '50s.
BUT WOULD IT HAVE THREATENED A
WHITE FAMILY FOR BEING TOO CLOSE
TO A BLACK FAMILY?
>> I HAD CROSSES BURN IN MY
YARD.
>> Reporter: WE ASKED THE MAYOR
OF THE NEXT TOWN OVER, AND SHE
SAID "ABSOLUTELY."
DOES THAT STORY SURPRISE YOU?
>> NOT AT ALL.
>> Reporter: NOT AT ALL?
>> NO, IT DOESN'T.
>> IT PROBABLY ONLY LASTED ABOUT
TEN MINUTES AT THE MOST.
>> Reporter: BUT IT WAS ENOUGH.
>> AND THEN THEY JUST RODE OFF.
>> Reporter: DONNA'S FAMILY
PACKED THE NEXT MORNING AND LEFT
THEIR HOME IN THE COTTON FIELD.
THEY MOVED TO LOUISIANA, WHERE
THEIR LIVES, BELIEVE IT OR NOT,
GOT EVEN HARDER.
♪ I BEG YOUR PARDON
I NEVER PROMISED YOU A ROSE
GARDEN.♪
DONNA'S FATHER WAS WORKING IN
THIS GAS STATION IN THE SMALL
TOWN OF MONROE, LOUISIANA, WHEN
A CAR CRUSHED HIM AGAINST THE
BACK WALL.
>> BECAUSE HE JUMPED UP, IT
CAUGHT HIM RIGHT AT HIS LEGS AND
JUST CRUSHED HIM FROM THE
LEGS DOWN.
♪ WHAT A DAY THAT WILL BE...
>> Reporter: IN ARKANSAS, WE
CAME ACROSS THIS ABANDONED
CHURCH.
BACK IN ITS DAY, IT WAS WHAT
WHITES CALLED A "COLORED
CHURCH."
DONNA'S FATHER HAD ONCE PREACHED
IN A SUCH A CHURCH BACK IN HIS
SHARECROPPING DAYS, BUT THEN HE
BACKSLID; HE LOST HIS FAITH.
BUT NOW THAT HE WAS PARALYZED HE
BEGAN PREACHING IN SMALL
CHURCHES AND TENT SHOW REVIVALS
ACROSS THE SOUTH, WHICH MEANT
DONNA WAS CONSTANTLY MOVING.
>> ALL THE WAY FROM NEBRASKA,
ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE TIP OF
TEXAS AND LOUISIANA AND
ARKANSAS.
I SANG FROM THE TIME I WAS FIVE
YEARS OLD UNTIL I LEFT IN HIGH
SCHOOL.
♪ NO MORE BURDEN TO BEAR.
I WOULD HAVE TO LITERALLY CLIMB
UP ON A CHAIR SO PEOPLE COULD
SEE ME OVER THE PULPIT AND SING.
♪
>> Reporter: DONNA GOT MARRIED
IN HIGH SCHOOL, RAISED TWO
DAUGHTERS, BUT SHE WAS
INCREASINGLY SUFFERING FROM A
GENETIC BONE CONDITION; HER
KNEES WOULD DISLOCATE, HER BONES
WOULD BREAK, REQUIRING SURGERY
AFTER SURGERY.
>> HE WILL TAKE YOU ON A TRIP
THAT YOU CANNOT IMAGINE.
>> Reporter: DONNA'S PASTOR
WOULD VISIT AFTER EACH
PROCEDURE.
HOW MANY TIMES DO YOU THINK
YOU'VE NEEDED TO GO TO THE
HOSPITAL?
>> IN EXCESS, OVER THE YEARS,
30 TIMES.
>> ♪ HE HOLDS THE FUTURE...
>> Reporter: IT WAS WHILE SHE
WAS RECUPERATING FROM ANOTHER
SURGERY THAT HER HUSBAND TOLD
HER THEIR 26-YEAR MARRIAGE WAS
OVER.
>> I REMEMBER THINKING TO
MYSELF, I HAVE BEEN TOTALLY
REJECTED.
AND I REMEMBER THINKING, I AM
REALLY ALONE.
>> Reporter: AS WE FLEW OUR LAST
LEG INTO SAN DIEGO, DONNA TOLD
ME, DESPITE HER LIFETIME OF
UPHEAVALS, FAITH HAD KEPT HER
GOING.
♪ REMEMBER...
DONNA WENT ON TO COLLEGE AND
GRADUATE SCHOOL.
THE REASON SHE WAS IN FIRST
CLASS?
SHE'S NOW AN INTERNATIONAL
CONSULTANT, AND YOU'LL NEVER
GUESS WHAT HER SPECIALTY IS.
>> A DISCIPLINE CALLED CHANGE
MANAGEMENT.
>> Reporter: CHANGE MANAGEMENT.
>> CHANGE MANAGEMENT.
>> Reporter: SO, YOUR...
ESSENTIALLY YOUR FIELD OF
EXPERTISE IS CHANGE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Reporter: CHANGE.
THAT THING THAT HAPPENS TO ALL
OF US, DONNA SAYS, WHEN WE'RE
NOT LOOKING.
♪
♪ AS I WALK, LET ME WALK CLOSE
TO THEE ♪
>> Reporter: DONNA DID
EVENTUALLY FIND THE LAND HER
GRANDPARENTS HAD SHARECROPPED.
THEIR HOUSE HAD BEEN TORN DOWN,
THEIR GARDEN WAS GONE.
>> THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN EXACTLY
WHERE THE HOUSE WAS SITTING.
>> WOW!
>> Reporter: BUT THE SON OF THE
FARMER WHO OWNED THE LAND
REMEMBERED HER FAMILY WELL.
>> THEY WERE POOR, NO DOUBT
ABOUT IT.
THEY WERE AS POOR AS IT GETS.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE MONEY, BUT,
YOU KNOW, WHAT YOU DON'T HAVE
IN MONEY WE MAKE FOR IN OTHER
WAYS.
>> MY GRANDPARENTS, MY DAD, MY
COUSINS, MY UNCLES, ALL WALKED
ON THIS LAND.
>> Reporter: SO, IN THE END, WE
WOUND UP BACK WHERE HER FAMILY'S
STORY BEGAN, BACK BEFORE THE
KLAN, THE REVIVALS AND THE
BROKEN BONES.
>> AND YOU COME FROM SUCH HUMBLE
BEGINNINGS, IT MAKES YOU REALLY
GRATEFUL FOR WHAT YOU HAVE.
HATS OFF TO YOU, GRANDMA AND
GRANDPA.
I APPRECIATE YOU.
>> Reporter: ON OUR WAY BACK TO
THE AIRPORT, I FELT I WAS SEEING
THINGS THROUGH DONNA'S EYES.
I SAW CHANGES ALL AROUND US, AND
HOW HARD AND BEAUTIFUL THE WHOLE
THING IS.
THAT'S ANOTHER THING ABOUT
FLYING COACH-- SOMETIMES ITS
MORE THAN JUST MY SEAT THAT GETS
AN UPGRADE.
THAT WILL TEACH YOU TO TALK TO
SOMEBODY ON AN AIRPLANE.
>> I'M TELLING YOU!
TRYING TO MIND YOUR OWN
BUSINESS?
YOU END UP IN A COTTON FIELD IN
ARKANSAS.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Sreenivasan: WATCH THE FIRST
INSTALLMENT OF OUR "FLYING
COACH" SERIES.
VISIT newshour.pbs.org.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AN ESTIMATED
MILLION AND A HALF AMERICANS
SUFFER FROM RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS, A PAINFUL AND OFTEN
DEBILITATING DISEASE THAT
AFFLICTS WOMEN NEARLY THREE
TIMES AS OFTEN AS MEN.
NOW, AN EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENT
IN THE NETHERLANDS, AN
ELECTRONIC IMPLANT, OFFERS
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS SUFFERERS
THE PROSPECT OF A BETTER LIFE.
LEWIS VAUGHAN JONES OF BRITAIN'S
I.T.N. HAS THE STORY.
>> HEY.
>> HI.
>> Reporter: MARIE IS PART OF
A TRIAL IN THE NETHERLANDS, AND
THE RESULTS HAVE CHANGED HER
LIFE.
SHE HAS RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS,
CAUSED BY A FAULT WITH HER
IMMUNE SYSTEM.
NOW, AN ELECTRONIC IMPLANT HAS
BEEN PLACED UNDER HER SKIN.
WHEN ACTIVATED, IT DISTORTS HER
VOICE BUT ALSO SEEMS TO CURE
HER.
>> I CAN DO LOTS OF MORE THINGS.
I CAN GO ON THE BIKE.
I'M SKATING AGAIN.
>> Reporter: A PACEMAKER-LIKE
IMPLANT IS ATTACHED TO THE VAGUS
NERVE IN THE PATIENT'S NECK.
IT FIRES ELECTRICAL IMPULSES FOR
JUST THREE MINUTES EACH DAY.
THIS INTERRUPTS THE IMMUNE
SYSTEM, AND THE SPLEEN PRODUCES
FEWER OF THE CHEMICALS THAT
CAUSE SWELLING AND PAIN AROUND
THE JOINTS.
>> SOME PATIENTS WHO COULD COME
OFF MEDICATION COMPLETELY AND
WHO ARE NOW IN A STATE OF
REMISSION-- IN OTHER WORDS, THEY
DON'T HAVE ANY SIGN OR SYMPTOM
OF THE DISEASE ANYMORE.
>> ON A GOOD DAY I CAN GO FIVE
MINUTES WALKING WITH MY
CRUTCHES.
ON A BAD DAY, IT'S WITH THE
SCOOTER.
>> Reporter: KATHERINE MANNING
IS 33.
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS MEANS
ALMOST CONSTANT PAIN.
ON GOOD DAYS, SHE CAN HELP WITH
HER THREE CHILDREN.
NEWS OF A POTENTIAL NEW
TREATMENT BRINGS HOPE.
>> TO NOT HAVE TO TAKE
MEDICATION, TO HAVE MY LIFE
BACK, TO BE A MUM AND A WIFE
WOULD BE ABSOLUTELY AMAZING.
>> Reporter: THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE TESTED IN THIS RESEARCH
IS VERY LOW, AND IT'S STILL
YEARS FROM BEING ROLLED OUT.
IF IT WORKS, IT COULD CHANGE
THOUSANDS OF LIVES.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
REPUBLICAN LAWMAKERS ARE SAID TO
BE DRAWING UP IMMIGRATION REFORM
LEGISLATION.
IT INTENDS NOT ONLY TO BEEF UP
SECURITY ALONG THE BORDER WITH
MEXICO BUT ALSO TO PAVE THE WAY
FOR MORE HIGH-TECH SPECIALISTS
AND FARM WORKERS TO ENTER THE
COUNTRY.
ALL THIS ACCORDING TO THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
AND AT VATICAN TODAY, THE
TURKISH MAN WHO IN 1981 SHOT
POPE JOHN PAUL II LAID FLOWERS
ON THE LATE PONTIFF'S TOMB.
MEHMET ALI AGCA SERVED 19 YEARS
FOR THE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT.
WHILE IN JAIL, POPE JOHN PAUL II
VISITED AGCA THERE AND FORGAVE
HIM.
THAT'S ALL FOR TONIGHT.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
WE'LL SEE YOU HERE AGAIN
TOMORROW.